Zephyr 0.55.0 migration notice (#583)
arduino/help-center-content: content/Software Support/Arduino App Lab/Migrating-to-Zephyr-core-0-55-0-on-UNO-Q.md

---
title: Migrating to Zephyr core 0.55.0 on UNO Q
---

The Arduino Zephyr core version 0.55.0 introduces significant improvements and changes for Arduino UNO Q. This update streamlines how Serial communication works and adds support for new libraries, but also requires specific tooling and library updates for a smooth transition.

In this article:

<!-- TOC -->

- [What's changing](#whats-changing)
- [What you need to do](#what-you-need-to-do)
- [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)

<!-- /TOC -->

## What's changing

> - `Serial` as now an alias for `Monitor`, and `Serial` will print to the Serial Monitor, consistent with other Arduino cores. To print directly to the hardware UART pins (pins 0 and 1) on the UNO Q, you must now explicitly use `Serial1` instead `Serial`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `Serial` is now an alias for `Monitor`, and `Serial` will print to the Serial Monitor, consistent with other Arduino cores. To print directly to the hardware UART pins (pins 0 and 1) on the UNO Q, you must now explicitly use `Serial1` instead of `Serial`.
```

Author: Thanks!

* The core now enforces the inclusion and usage of the `Arduino_RouterBridge` and `Arduino_RPCLite` libraries for Serial support. Compiling with this new core makes the manual inclusion of `Arduino_RouterBridge.h` redundant for basic Serial usage.
* If you are using cores manually placed in your sketchbook, it is now mandatory to use `zephyr` as the local core name for the UNO Q.
* The `flash_mode` option has been removed from the board settings.

## What you need to do

### Arduino App Lab

Arduino App Lab will automatically prompt you to update to the latest version.

To manually initiate the update:

1. Open **Settings** from the sidebar.
2. Find the **System Info** section.
3. Select **Update**.

### Arduino IDE

Follow these steps:

1. Open the **Boards Manager** in Arduino IDE 2.
2. Search for **Arduino Zephyr Boards**.
3. Update to version **0.55.0**.

> 4. Arduino IDE will automatically detect and prompt you to install the required `Arduino_RouterBridge` and `Arduino_RPCLite` libraries.

Author: > 4. Arduino IDE will automatically detect and prompt you to install the required `Arduino_RouterBridge` and `Arduino_RPCLite` libraries.

@pennam Is this accurate, considering [what you wrote in this comment](https://github.com/arduino/help-center-content/pull/583#discussion_r3168541188)?

Or should it be

```suggestion
4. Open the **Library Manager**.
5. Search for `Arduino_RouterBridge`, and install the latest version.
6. Search for `Arduino_RPCLite`, and install the latest version.
```

cc @pillo79

Author: @pennam do we also need to burn the bootloader?

Reviewer 2: @swikstrom your suggestion is correct, you need to manually install the libraries because arduino-cli 1.5.0 is not yet released.

And yes you need also to burn the bootloader :slightly_smiling_face:

Reviewer: The IDE has not yet integrated the change that makes it automatic, I suggest we go with the manual description. And yes, you should reload the bootloader on any core update.

Author: Added instructions for bootloader with 52a031cf8ef4f93b1f5ac768ac9adcdc659f73a5

- The core now enforces the inclusion and usage of the `Arduino_RouterBridge` and `Arduino_RPCLite` libraries for Serial support. Compiling with this new core makes the manual inclusion of `Arduino_RouterBridge.h` redundant for basic Serial usage.
- If you are using cores manually placed in your sketchbook, it is now mandatory to use `zephyr` as the local core name for the UNO Q.
- The `flash_mode` option has been removed from the board settings.

## What you need to do

### Arduino App Lab

Arduino App Lab will automatically prompt you to update to the latest version.

To manually initiate the update:

1. Open **Settings** from the sidebar.
2. Find the **System Info** section.
3. Select **Update**.

### Arduino IDE

If you're using Arduino IDE, you need to manually update the core, install the latest libraries, and flash the bootloader.

Follow these steps:

1. Open the **Boards Manager** in Arduino IDE.
2. Search for **Arduino Zephyr Boards**.
3. Update to version **0.55.0**.
4. Open the **Library Manager**.
5. Search for `Arduino_RouterBridge`, and install the latest version.

> 6. Search for `Arduino_RPCLite`, and install the latest version.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
6. An **Install library dependencies** dialog will open. Click the **INSTALL ALL** button in the dialog.
```

`Arduino_RPClite` is specified as a dependency in the `Arduino_RouterBridge` metadata:

https://github.com/arduino-libraries/Arduino_RouterBridge/blob/0.4.1/library.properties#L10

On installation of a library, Library Manager automatically offers to install the dependencies specified by a library. The user only needs to make sure to accept that offer in order to obtain an installation of the `Arduino_RPClite` library. In addition to being more convenient, approving the installation of dependencies via this dialog is also important because there are additional transitive library dependencies, which the dependencies installation feature will also install:

https://github.com/arduino-libraries/Arduino_RPClite/blob/0.2.1/library.properties#L10

https://github.com/hideakitai/MsgPack/blob/v0.4.2/library.properties#L10

So the previous instructions were either superfluous (in the scenario where the user chose to click the **INSTALL ALL** button) or incomplete (in the scenario where the user refrained from accepting installation of the additional libraries).
